eNoteBook/README.md, before:

# My INT lab-book
[![forthebadge](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/made-with-crayons.svg)](https://forthebadge.com)
[![forthebadge](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/made-with-markdown.svg)](https://forthebadge.com)

- My personal lab-notebook for my internship at the Institut de Neurosciences de la Timone [(INT, Marseille, France)](http://www.int.univ-amu.fr/).

# Tasks
## **Week 1** - *5th till 11th of April, 2021*

- [x] Setting up a notebook repo on github. 
- [x] Knocking down a few pages from Andriy Burkov's Hundred page machine learning book. 
- [x] Installing CUDA toolkit and PyTorch. 

- [x] Reading up on Spatial Transformers:
  - [x] Reading the original 2015 paper<sup>2</sup> 
  - [x] Finish up a [presentation](https://youtu.be/6NOQC_fl1hQ). 
  - [x] Reading The PyTorch tutorial [here](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/spatial_transformer_tutorial.html). 

- [x] Meeting with the supervisor,**Wednesday april 7th, 10:00**. 
- [x] Checking the source code of the What/Where network [repo](https://github.com/laurentperrinet/WhereIsMyMNIST). 
- [x] Checking some Pytorch tutorials. 
  - [x] Official Tutorial [here](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/beginner/basics/intro.html) 
- [x] Thinking about a way to integrate the STN module into the What/Where model &#8594; Reproducing Figure 4 from the original paper <sup>1</sup>. 

- [x] Feeding the MNIST specially modified dataset in a STN. (28x28 with Shift, mask and MotionClouds):
    - [x] Success rate can't go above 11% on a noisy 28x28, must rethink strategy.
    - [x] Success rate of 94% on a noisy without shift 28x28 dataset. 

- [x] Factorizing STN : 
  - [x] Separate it into a .py file.
  - [x] Documentation

- [x] Starting the Deep learning with Pytorch book to get a better grip of what's happening.

- [x] Integrated LeNet Network with the Spatial Transformer and Test on a 28x28 Noisy MNIST with eccentricity of 2.
- [x] A second meeting with M. Daucé and M. Perrinet, **Friday, 10:15**.
- [x] First BraiNets team meeting
- [x] Train the STN on a shift dependant dataset like the generic what pathway in the article.
- [x] Reproduce the classification accuracy map with the same range as the what network.


## **Week 2** - *12th till 18th of April, 2021*

- [x] Factorizing Spatial Transformer Module and Documentation.

- [x] Reading up on CNNs.
    - [x] Colah's blog article [here](http://colah.github.io/posts/2014-07-Conv-Nets-Modular/)
    - [x] A good medium article on convolutions [here](https://towardsdatascience.com/intuitively-understanding-convolutions-for-deep-learning-1f6f42faee1)
    - [x] Computerphile videos
    - [x] A medium article on parameters [here](https://towardsdatascience.com/understanding-and-calculating-the-number-of-parameters-in-convolution-neural-networks-cnns-fc88790d530d)
  
- [x] Preparing slides for the first oral presentation at friday.
- [x] Second BraiNets team meeting.

- [x] 28x28 STN can't apply different crops, find out why:
  - [x] Tried on 20 epochs instead of 5 on a single value of shift std (0 and 5), **failed**.
  - [x] Tried changing the structure of the network, **failed**.
  - [x] Tried changing the loss function, **failed**.
  - [x] Tried changing the optimizer, **worked**.

- [x] Meeting with the head of Polytech computer science engineering school, **Wednesday, 18:00**

- [x] Investigate Adam Vs. SGD:
  - [x] Check if <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?\theta"/> is the same for every input while training on Adam. **Same <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?\bold{\theta}"/>**
  - [x] Try Adam with Threshold = False, if it doesn't work, go with SGD. **Threshold doesn't exist**
  - [x] Adam works when setting the learning rate to the default parameter, 1e-3.
  - [x] Adam works when training on a maximum of 3 loops of standard deviation.
  - [x] When trying to process on an increasing shift std from 0 to 15, we get the same problem even when the learning rate is 1e-3.
  - [x] Maybe just try and go with SGD anyways. 
 
- [x] Meeting with M. Daucé, **Friday, 10:00**
- [x] Retrained the 28x28 network with SGD, even a better performance (ofcourse).
- [x] Presentation about the internship (overview or general approach), **Friday, 15:10**
- [x] A RDV with a professor in M2 Artificial intelligence study path, **Friday, 13:00**
- [x] Recalculate the accuracy map.


## **Week 3** - *19th till 25th of April, 2021*

- [x] Reading the paper about NLP transformers on images<sup>3</sup>
- [x] Third BraiNets team meeting.
- [x] Tried taking out bias terms in the spatial transformer to see if Adam works. **Adam still can't work**
- [x] Replacing the results with SGD results (way better, yay!).
- [x] Cleaning the repository a little bit.
- [x] Adding a new repository to store some old notebooks and figures that are not used.
- [x] Understanding how tensors change with convulutions and max pooling (on paper).
- [x] Modifying the CNN architecture of the Localization network (in the STN) to take into account the noisy 128x128 input.🚩
  - [x] Tried adding 2 conv layers to the what network and 1 conv layer to the localization network, **Training is hard, but seems to work!!!!**.
  > The new architecture (to be verified by M. Daucé)
 
Modified transformer |  Modified What
:-----------------------:|:--------------:
<img src="trans.jpg" width="700" height="900">|<img src="what.jpg" width="700" height="900">

- [x] Trained the new architecture for 25 epochs without a shift, **It takes 2-3 hours, worked, 98% accuracy achieved**.
- [x] Went back to the old repository to explore what is eccentricity and different parameters of contrast chosen for figure 4.
- [x] Meeting with M. Daucé, **Thursday, 14:00**

- [x] Trying to take out one fully connected layers in the Spatial Transformer and see how it performs, **Works** 
 
- [x] Reread the original paper to investigate the structure.

- [x] Factored view_dataset() in a function in utils.py
 

## **Week 4** - *26th of April till 2nd of May, 2021*

- [x] **PROBLEM WITH THE ARCHITECHTURE**, accuracy increases then drops at final epochs.
    - [x] Tried training with Adam, **not working**.
    - [x] Tried to add kernels in the localization network, **not working**.
    - [x] Tried with a different learning rate, **not working**.
    - [x] Overfitting?, maybe add a dropout layer..., **Seems to work this time but maybe due to chance, thetas are the same like with Adam**. 
    - [x] Implemented the TC architechture from the paper 🤞
    - [x] Training directly on the translated dataset, **fail**.
- [x] Persisting problem with the architechture, **tried varying everything**.
- [x] Same training scheme as the 28x28, increasing eccentricity.
    - [x] Trained on eccentricity 0 (radius=0).
    - [x] Trained on all eccentricities, **problem, accuracy drops sharply and nothing works**.
- [x] Took out a linear layer and modified kernels.
- [x] Trained on 20 epochs with SGD 0.1, 96% accuracy but still the same theta.
- [x] Added foveated convolution layer class. 
- [x] same theta while training on higher radius, doesn't really crops, only classifies,**rethink strategy**. 
- [x] Taken out 2 conv layers from the classification net, same performance on adam, but still adam never transforms.
- [ ] Thinking about refactoring all the code in separate scripts.
- [ ] Start preparing slides for BraiNets meeting
- [ ] Start preparing slides for 2nd presentation checkup at Luminy for M. Gonzalez

## **Week 5** - *3rd till 9th of May, 2021*
## **Week 6** - *10th till 16th of May, 2021*
## **Week 7** - *17th till 23rd of May, 2021*
## **Week 8** - *24th till 30th of May, 2021*

Commit message:

model is working when changing structure, finally

eNoteBook/README.md, after:

# My INT lab-book
[![forthebadge](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/made-with-crayons.svg)](https://forthebadge.com)
[![forthebadge](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/made-with-markdown.svg)](https://forthebadge.com)

- My personal lab-notebook for my internship at the Institut de Neurosciences de la Timone [(INT, Marseille, France)](http://www.int.univ-amu.fr/).

# Tasks
## **Week 1** - *5th till 11th of April, 2021*

- [x] Setting up a notebook repo on github. 
- [x] Knocking down a few pages from Andriy Burkov's Hundred page machine learning book. 
- [x] Installing CUDA toolkit and PyTorch. 

- [x] Reading up on Spatial Transformers:
  - [x] Reading the original 2015 paper<sup>2</sup> 
  - [x] Finish up a [presentation](https://youtu.be/6NOQC_fl1hQ). 
  - [x] Reading The PyTorch tutorial [here](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/spatial_transformer_tutorial.html). 

- [x] Meeting with the supervisor,**Wednesday april 7th, 10:00**. 
- [x] Checking the source code of the What/Where network [repo](https://github.com/laurentperrinet/WhereIsMyMNIST). 
- [x] Checking some Pytorch tutorials. 
  - [x] Official Tutorial [here](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/beginner/basics/intro.html) 
- [x] Thinking about a way to integrate the STN module into the What/Where model &#8594; Reproducing Figure 4 from the original paper <sup>1</sup>. 

- [x] Feeding the MNIST specially modified dataset in a STN. (28x28 with Shift, mask and MotionClouds):
    - [x] Success rate can't go above 11% on a noisy 28x28, must rethink strategy.
    - [x] Success rate of 94% on a noisy without shift 28x28 dataset. 

- [x] Factorizing STN : 
  - [x] Separate it into a .py file.
  - [x] Documentation

- [x] Starting the Deep learning with Pytorch book to get a better grip of what's happening.

- [x] Integrated LeNet Network with the Spatial Transformer and Test on a 28x28 Noisy MNIST with eccentricity of 2.
- [x] A second meeting with M. Daucé and M. Perrinet, **Friday, 10:15**.
- [x] First BraiNets team meeting
- [x] Train the STN on a shift dependant dataset like the generic what pathway in the article.
- [x] Reproduce the classification accuracy map with the same range as the what network.


## **Week 2** - *12th till 18th of April, 2021*

- [x] Factorizing Spatial Transformer Module and Documentation.

- [x] Reading up on CNNs.
    - [x] Colah's blog article [here](http://colah.github.io/posts/2014-07-Conv-Nets-Modular/)
    - [x] A good medium article on convolutions [here](https://towardsdatascience.com/intuitively-understanding-convolutions-for-deep-learning-1f6f42faee1)
    - [x] Computerphile videos
    - [x] A medium article on parameters [here](https://towardsdatascience.com/understanding-and-calculating-the-number-of-parameters-in-convolution-neural-networks-cnns-fc88790d530d)
  
- [x] Preparing slides for the first oral presentation at friday.
- [x] Second BraiNets team meeting.

- [x] 28x28 STN can't apply different crops, find out why:
  - [x] Tried on 20 epochs instead of 5 on a single value of shift std (0 and 5), **failed**.
  - [x] Tried changing the structure of the network, **failed**.
  - [x] Tried changing the loss function, **failed**.
  - [x] Tried changing the optimizer, **worked**.

- [x] Meeting with the head of Polytech computer science engineering school, **Wednesday, 18:00**

- [x] Investigate Adam Vs. SGD:
  - [x] Check if <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?\theta"/> is the same for every input while training on Adam. **Same <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?\bold{\theta}"/>**
  - [x] Try Adam with Threshold = False, if it doesn't work, go with SGD. **Threshold doesn't exist**
  - [x] Adam works when setting the learning rate to the default parameter, 1e-3.
  - [x] Adam works when training on a maximum of 3 loops of standard deviation.
  - [x] When trying to process on an increasing shift std from 0 to 15, we get the same problem even when the learning rate is 1e-3.
  - [x] Maybe just try and go with SGD anyways. 
 
- [x] Meeting with M. Daucé, **Friday, 10:00**
- [x] Retrained the 28x28 network with SGD, even a better performance (ofcourse).
- [x] Presentation about the internship (overview or general approach), **Friday, 15:10**
- [x] A RDV with a professor in M2 Artificial intelligence study path, **Friday, 13:00**
- [x] Recalculate the accuracy map.


## **Week 3** - *19th till 25th of April, 2021*

- [x] Reading the paper about NLP transformers on images<sup>3</sup>
- [x] Third BraiNets team meeting.
- [x] Tried taking out bias terms in the spatial transformer to see if Adam works. **Adam still can't work**
- [x] Replacing the results with SGD results (way better, yay!).
- [x] Cleaning the repository a little bit.
- [x] Adding a new repository to store some old notebooks and figures that are not used.
- [x] Understanding how tensors change with convulutions and max pooling (on paper).
- [x] Modifying the CNN architecture of the Localization network (in the STN) to take into account the noisy 128x128 input.🚩
  - [x] Tried adding 2 conv layers to the what network and 1 conv layer to the localization network, **Training is hard, but seems to work!!!!**.
  > The new architecture (to be verified by M. Daucé)
 
Modified transformer |  Modified What
:-----------------------:|:--------------:
<img src="trans.jpg" width="700" height="900">|<img src="what.jpg" width="700" height="900">

- [x] Trained the new architecture for 25 epochs without a shift, **It takes 2-3 hours, worked, 98% accuracy achieved**.
- [x] Went back to the old repository to explore what is eccentricity and different parameters of contrast chosen for figure 4.
- [x] Meeting with M. Daucé, **Thursday, 14:00**

- [x] Trying to take out one fully connected layers in the Spatial Transformer and see how it performs, **Works** 
 
- [x] Reread the original paper to investigate the structure.

- [x] Factored view_dataset() in a function in utils.py
 

## **Week 4** - *26th of April till 2nd of May, 2021*

- [x] **PROBLEM WITH THE ARCHITECHTURE**, accuracy increases then drops at final epochs.
    - [x] Tried training with Adam, **not working**.
    - [x] Tried to add kernels in the localization network, **not working**.
    - [x] Tried with a different learning rate, **not working**.
    - [x] Overfitting?, maybe add a dropout layer..., **Seems to work this time but maybe due to chance, thetas are the same like with Adam**. 
    - [x] Implemented the TC architechture from the paper 🤞
    - [x] Training directly on the translated dataset, **fail**.
- [x] Persisting problem with the architechture, **tried varying everything**.
- [x] Same training scheme as the 28x28, increasing eccentricity.
    - [x] Trained on eccentricity 0 (radius=0).
    - [x] Trained on all eccentricities, **problem, accuracy drops sharply and nothing works**.
- [x] Took out a linear layer and modified kernels.
- [x] Trained on 20 epochs with SGD 0.1, 96% accuracy but still the same theta.
- [x] Added foveated convolution layer class. 
- [x] same theta while training on higher radius, doesn't really crops, only classifies,**rethink strategy**. 
- [x] Taken out 2 conv layers from the classification net, same performance on adam, but still adam never transforms.
- [x] **After taking out the 2 conv layers from the classification net, and training on sgd with 0.1 for 20 epochs on the eccentricity 4.44444, this time it seems to work, different thetas for different inputs, finally**
- [ ] Training the new network on all eccentricities.
- [ ] Thinking about refactoring all the code in separate scripts.
- [ ] Start preparing slides for BraiNets meeting
- [ ] Start preparing slides for 2nd presentation checkup at Luminy for M. Gonzalez

## **Week 5** - *3rd till 9th of May, 2021*
## **Week 6** - *10th till 16th of May, 2021*
## **Week 7** - *17th till 23rd of May, 2021*
## **Week 8** - *24th till 30th of May, 2021*
